Widgets 2.0 (#4028)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/graphing/widgets/distribution.md

---
title: Distribution Widget
kind: documentation
description: "Graph a metric distribution aggregated across one or several tags."
further_reading:
- link: "graphing/dashboards/timeboard/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Timeboards"
---

> The Distribution visualization is another way of showing metrics aggregated across one or several tags, such as *hosts*. Unlike the [heat map][1], distribution's x-axis is the quantity rather than time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Distribution visualization is another way of showing metrics aggregated across one or several tags, such as *hosts*. Unlike the [heat map][1], a distribution graph's x-axis is quantity rather than time.
```

This visualization displays only a single metric query; additional queries are disregarded.

**Note**: Outlier detection cannot be performed for this visualization.

{{< img src="graphing/widgets/distribution/distribution.png" alt="Distribution" responsive="true" >}}

## Setup

{{< img src="graphing/widgets/distribution/distribution_setup.png" alt="Distribution" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

### Configuration

> Configure your metric query as usual. Note that this visualization type is useful only when metrics are aggregated across Tag Keys , e.g. for each `host`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure your metric query as usual. Note that this visualization type is useful only when metrics are aggregated across tag keys, e.g. for each `host`. 
```

> Make a selection in the "`avg`/`max`/`min`/`sum by`…" control to see your data across the associated tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make a selection in the "`avg`/`max`/`min`/`sum by`/etc." control to see your data across the associated tags.
```

### Options
#### Display preference 

{{< img src="graphing/widgets/options/display_preferences.png" alt="Display preferences" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

##### Global time

> On Screenboard only, choose whether your widget has a custom timeframe or the global timeframe of the Screenboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On screenboards only, choose whether your widget has a custom timeframe or the screenboard's global timeframe.
```

##### Legend

> Enable legend display on your widget by selecting the *Show legend on graph* toggle. Optionally, select the amount of entries to display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use *Show legend on graph* to toggle the legend display on your widget. Optionally, select the number of entries to display.
```
